---
layout:     post
title:      "Pedagogy and Aims at DBC"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2015-1-17
author:     "Erik Stockmeier"
header-img: "img/ed.jpg"
---

<p>
I had been <em>aware</em> of intensive coding schools like Dev Bootcamp for some time, and I'm a little bit embarassed to say that I drifted into it on a whim; it wasn't in a moment of crisis, I'm not dreaming of becoming a rich creative, I wasn't searching for my purpose and I'm not finally scratching an itch or entertaining a little voice that has always told me to code. What started as a whim, though, grew as I learned more about the culture and pedagogy of the school. I'm [tentatively] happy to be learning a new skill, yes, but DBC's exposition of its methods and culture were what most spoke to me and made me want to be a part of it.
</p>
<p>
Gosh, I have so many thoughts on this. I'm a teacher by training. I got into teaching through my politics and volunteering in my community-really through ESL and bicycle mechanics questions- two different classes. Wanting to remake the world through a deep practice in direct democracy made education make sense to me. At the risk of running on and using up things I might want to say in depth later, I'll say that education- both policy and pedagogy -have become something of a passion for me.
</p>
<p>
In the <a href="https://vimeo.com/85001014">Fireside Chat video required for this post </a>, Shereef briefly mentions <em>Pedagogy of the Oppressed</em> along with lots of other concepts familiar to people who spend time thinking about curriculum: breadth vs depth, participatory research and experiential education and the impact of class size on our experience of curriculum. In short, the video confirms my expectations of DBC's culture and approach to learning.
</p>
<p>
I guess I'll close with a few thoughts that aren't intended to be downers. DBC seems like a sort of a dream educational project, something that anyone would be lucky to participate in. I agree with and believe in the aphorism that anyone can learn #{something}, but that doesn't mean that I think every environment works for every person. DBC succeeds because it gets the funding it needs to give students the support to succeed. As someone coming out of teaching in an urban public school system where inequality is high (off the top of my head, I believe per-pupil spending is about 65% of one public school system 10 miles north of the city), I can't help but feel a little bit bitter, even guilty for participating it. At the very least I am incredibly privileged to be able to quit a stable job for this and put this really amazing educational experience on a credit card. But I'm a white man, so these kind of experiences are nothing new.
</p>
<p>
I'll close by saying that I'm excited to be a part of this. I'm trying my best to enter eyes wide open. I'm trying to be conscious of my roots and to treat this entire experience as a means to continue looking at the sort of oppressive systems that make an experience like this a luxury. Maybe a mouthful or just something that sounds disingenuous, but I feel like I'm serious.
</p>
<p>I have a lot more thoughts on DBC's culture and curriculum, but again, I feel like I want to save something to report on later. I'm looking forward to this blog. Thanks.</p>
