---
layout:     post
title:      "Reflecting on feedback so far"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2015-02-16
author:     "Erik Stockmeier"
header-img: "img/ed.jpg"
---
<p>
I've already written that pedagogy was one of the primary reasons for my application to Dev Bootcamp. As I've gotten to experience more of it for myself these feelings have been confirmed.
</p>
<p>
Coding itself is perfectly positioned to be a vehicle for <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Experience_and_Education_%28book%29">experiential learning</a>. Its entire practice is predicated on creating, experimenting with and destroying models; it is a way to play with and theorize about other realities. On top of all this, the barrier to entry (or return on investment) is surprisingly low- one really only needs a computer and internet access- so it really is not an exaggeration to say that one can be writing their first programs (or <a href="t5-ruby-classes.html">building their first bicycles</a>) shortly after starting. This freedom to experiment and take risks seems like something really unique and special.
</p>
<p>
Pair coding extends that experience and makes it social. Teachers learn all sorts of different ways to group and pair students, and many of the approaches translate well to learning through pair coding. If a student is having trouble they can treat a pairing session like a peer tutoring session (sometimes also called heterogenous grouping). For the student with a more confident grasp of the material, taking on the "tutor" role can help her solidify her own developing concepts of the material by translating it for another beginner. Meanwhile, working in more homogenous groups spreads autonomy and decision-making more evenly; both can help a student's sense of confidence at the right time. Invariably, working through a problem with someone else allows us both to clarify our understandings and confusions.
</p>
<p>
My personal experience of pairing has been positive. If anything I think I have been lucky to have really good pairs, so often times I finish without much constructive feedback to give.
</p>
<p>
This has been happening less often lately, though. As the challenges have become more complex, problems have begun cropping up around communication with my pairs. It is especially apparent in pseudocode: we have more trouble translating our ideas to pseudocode now than writing in the few methods we know between us- almost as though knowing a little bit has become a limiting factor compared to knowing nothing at all. This might be one area, though, that two sets of brains actually work out better since our knowledges are never the same.
</p>
<p>
Another wonderful thing bettered by code: DBC's feedback system. As a teacher I would have <strong>paid</strong> for a way to get my students giving each other feedback and rating that feedback.
</p>